A new announcement from the predominantly black and largest Pentecostal church in the United States and school choice polling data show black voters pulling away from the Democrat Party on two dominant issues in the 2020 elections: abortion and education.

Breitbart News reported last week that two recent polls demonstrate 34 percent of black likely voters approve of President Donald Trump’s presidency: A Rasmussen poll released Friday showed black likely voter approval of Trump at 34 percent. An Emerson Poll showed 34.5 percent approval by the same demographic.

“Boom,” wrote black author and Trump supporter Deneen Borelli on Twitter, calling the results “Democrats worst nightmare.”

 The polls are released as the Church of God in Christ (COGIC), one of the largest historically black Protestant churches in the U.S., announced in November it had unanimously passed a resolution that affirms the value and dignity of all human life and condemns elective abortion.

Writing at the Washington Examiner, Timothy Head, executive director of the Faith & Freedom Coalition and Rev. Dean Nelson, executive director of Human Coalition Action, the two leaders noted:

Something remarkable just happened in St. Louis that you probably didn’t hear about. The Church of God in Christ, a seven-million-member black denomination, unanimously passed a historic resolution affirming the value and dignity of every human life and opposing the practice of elective abortion in America.

A key excerpt from the Resolution on the Sanctity of Human Life reads:

COGIC is one of the largest historically black Protestant denominations, which also include the National Baptist Convention, the National Baptist Convention of America, the Progressive National Convention, the African Methodist Episcopal Church, the African Methodist Episcopal Zion Church, and the Christian Methodist Episcopal Church. Like these other groups, COGIC does not have a history of institutional involvement with causes typically associated with the Republican Party. Yet given the direction that abortion policy is moving in this country, its leaders felt compelled to act.

COGIC joined with the pro-life Human Coalition to create the Family Life Campaign, a three-year initiative that serves to save babies from abortion.

 In a 2016 press release about the joint effort, Bishop Charles Blake, presiding bishop of COGIC, likened the work of pro-life Christians to Jesus’s command, “Let the little children to come unto me”:

We see an escalation in violence around the world that is troubling. Terrorism, racial tension in America, and escalating crime. Indeed, this violence worsens daily as hundreds of thousands of children are snatched from their mothers’ wombs prematurely and killed through abortion.

What we do for the preborn and the born children in our society is our way of showing the Love and Compassion of Jesus Christ.

The announcement by COGIC comes as an abortion surveillance report by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) shows that, with only 32 areas in the U.S. reporting race and ethnicity data for 2016, when the data was last collected, non-Hispanic black women accounted for 38 percent – the largest percentage of any race/ethnic group – of all abortions in the country.

“The comparatively high abortion rates and ratios among non-Hispanic black women have been attributed to higher unintended pregnancy rates and a greater percentage of unintended pregnancies ending in abortion,” noted CDC.


 
Head and Nelson observe American blacks “are becoming the most conservative constituency within the Democratic Party’s coalition,” particularly where religion and abortion are concerned. New York Times columnist Thomas B. Edsall warned in September black voters should not be taken for granted.

“[T]he percentage of African-Americans describing themselves as moderate or conservative is almost twice as large as the percentage of white Democratic primary voters who describe themselves that way,” he wrote, adding:

In the case of abortion, the WSJ/NBC surveys show that 97 percent of white primary voters agree that the procedure should be “totally legal” compared with two thirds of black primary voters. A vanishingly small number of white Democratic primary voters — 3 percent — said abortion should be illegal, compared with a third of black Democrats.

Yet, as Maggie Astor at the Times observed last week, after surveying all 2020 Democrat presidential candidates, the group of contenders “has coalesced around an abortion rights agenda more far-reaching than anything past nominees have proposed.”

“The positions reflect a hugely consequential shift on one of the country’s most politically divisive issues,” she concluded.

Rev. Bill Owens, president of the Coalition of African American Pastors (CAAP), told Breitbart News abortion has “decimated the black community and is in opposition to our faith.”


 
“But the Left supports unlimited abortion policies that have led to black babies being aborted more than any other group,” he observed.

Education may present the field of Democrats with another abrupt sign of the severing of their bond with black voters, though, once again, few have bothered to notice.

Florida Angel parent Kiyan Michael drew attention to the substantial discrepancy between black voters and Democrats on the issue of school choice.

Breitbart News reported:

Michael points to one national poll, commissioned by the American Federation for Children, advocates for school choice, and conducted by Beck Research, a Democratic polling firm, that found 67 percent of voters support school choice, including 73 percent of Latinos, 67 percent of blacks, and 68 percent of whites.

Another poll released in August by Education Next found black Democrats approve of targeted vouchers, universal vouchers, and charter schools at 70 percent, 64 percent, and 55 percent, respectively, and Hispanic Democrats approve at 67 percent, 60 percent, and 47 percent. Yet a third poll commissioned by school choice proponents Democrats for Education Reform, and conducted by the Benenson Strategy Group, found 81 percent of Democrat primary voters, including 89 percent of black Democrat primary voters, support a proposal to “expand access to more choices and options within the public-school system,” including charter schools, which are funded with taxpayer dollars but operated by private boards.

Despite these overwhelming numbers in support of school choice in its many forms, Michael observed that “do-nothing Democrats still call the policy racist because they’d rather that public school teachers win with lifetime employment while black children lose with a lifetime of underperformance and missed dreams.”


 
Tommy Shultz explained at the Washington Examiner “Democrats love school choice, except when they’re running for president,” presumably when they seek the backing of the teachers’ unions.

“It’s no mystery why black voters are leaving the far-left’s agenda,” assert Owens and his wife, Dr. Deborah Owens, authors of the new book A Dream Derailed: How the Left Hijacked Civil Rights to Create a Permanent Underclass.

With Trump’s presidency focused on a pro-life agenda and school choice to move low-income children out of failing public schools, the Owenses add:

President Trump asked black voters to give him a chance … and we did. Now, he’s delivering on his promises and gaining more support. The economy is doing well, black unemployment is at its lowest level yet, and he is protecting religious freedom. Based on the conversations we’ve had with other black voters, I suspect his support is even higher than the polls indicate.

They assert as well that Democrats abandoned black Americans decades ago.

“We’re tired of being taken for granted by politicians who don’t reflect our values,” they state. “The black church has long been the center of the black community. But Leftists are now actively trying to push Christians out of the public square. When they’re not trying to silence us, they’re mocking us or our values.” China appears to be growing more insistent that the Trump administration surrender to its demands that a so-called phase one trade deal include lifting of tariffs already in place.

Talks between the U.S. and China have stalled over conflicting demands between the two sides. The U.S. wants China to publicly pledge to buy a set dollar value of U.S. agricultural goods while China has resisted setting the level of purchases in advance. China wants the U.S. to immediately lift existing tariffs while the U.S. negotiators say a preliminary deal should only effect tariffs hikes scheduled to take effect later this month. An article in the Global Times, which is the mouthpiece of China’s ruling communist party, indicated that no progress has been made in getting China to back off on its demand that the Trump administration surrender to its tariff-repeal demands.

From the Global Times:

“I think that it is not that hard,” Li Yong, deputy chair of the expert committee of the China Association of International Trade, told the Global Times on Sunday. “The trade war started with [the US’] tariffs, how can there be no tariff removal in a deal?” he said.

Removing existing tariffs is a top priority for China for the phase one deal. Sources with direct knowledge to the trade talks told the Global Times on Saturday that the US must remove existing tariffs, not planned tariffs, as part of the deal.

In a separate op-ed article published over the weekend, a former Chinese vice-minister of commerce and executive deputy director of the China Center for International Economic Exchanges wrote:

Rolling back tariffs levied by the US is a must. The China-US trade war instigated by the US with tariffs, so the tariffs have to be cut first. China does not want a trade war, but it is not afraid of one. If the US continues the trade war, China will fight back. No matter if the tariffs are lifted all at once or at separate stages, the US must roll back all tariffs if it is going to show sincerity.

Many Chinese officials believe that Trump wants to be able to announce a “win” on trade before the 2020 elections. Trump administration officials, however, say this is a misreading of the president’s motivations. Trump wants a good deal with China but remains unwilling to accept a weak or unenforceable deal even if it means that the trade dispute continues through next year’s election.

 Protesters who flocked to the Supreme Court of the United States Monday could not give the name of the case they came to oppose.

Members of the NRA’s social media team mingled with the protesters and asked them to name the case they were protesting. They received answers like, “New York gun club vs. New York State,” “Demand action,” and “I’m sorry but I don’t know.” The case is actually New York State Rifle and Pistol Association v. New York City.

On December 1, 2019, Breitbart News reported that SCOTUS was about to hear the case and we noted that it centered on a NYC gun control that prohibited licensed gun owners from transporting their firearms to all seven city-approved ranges. The protesters interviewed by the NRA were present to protest the possibility of a decision against NYC gun control. Turning Point USA founder Charlie Kirk and Liberty University president Jerry Falwell Jr. have announced that they are launching a think tank called the Falkirk Center for Faith and Liberty. Kirk said that the new center will “proclaim the truth of Jesus Christ, as articulated in the gospel, and the intersection of the gospel with American founding freedoms and founding liberty.”

“Charlie came up with the concept of creating an institution, a think tank, at Liberty University,” said Falwell, adding that in creating this institution, Liberty University is doing “what the public schools have failed to do, and that’s teach American history the way it should be taught.” The new initiative will be housed at Liberty University in Lynchburg, Virginia, according to One America News (OAN), which interviewed Kirk and Falwell about their new project. “This center, will, first and foremost, proclaim the truth of Jesus Christ, as articulated in the gospel, and the intersection of the gospel with American founding freedoms and founding liberty,” said Kirk. “Far too often, Christians do not receive and hear that message, especially in churches, and in the schools in particular.”

“We make the argument that American founding freedom and natural rights are harmonic with the freedoms that we find in the gospel,” added Kirk, “and Christians must learn how to adequately defend and fight for these freedoms in this now very important cultural battle that we’re in.”


 
Falwell noted that an employee at Liberty University came up with the name “Falkirk,” which is a playful double entendre inspired by both the Scottish battle for independence — the Battle of Falkirk — and the two last names of the institution’s founders, Falwell and Kirk.

“As Alex de Tocqueville said when he visited here in the 1700’s — ‘America is great because America is good. If America ever cease to be good, it will cease to be great,'” said Falwell, noting that the public school system teaches American history as a series of “sinister” events that have taken place — which the university president says is “the opposite of what happened.”

Kirk added that the launch of the Falkirk center “is doing what the public education system should have done, which is answering the important questions of — what does the bible instruct Christians to do in this civic arena.”

“The church is a voluntary organization of citizens who are making the difference in their society,” said Falwell, “and that’s something that authoritarian governments cannot stand — that’s a big threat to them, and so, we think we have to do what we can to defend our basic rights from the government.” On Monday’s broadcast of Fox News Channel’s “Your World,” network judicial analyst Andrew Napolitano criticized President Donald Trump’s decision not to send lawyers to the House Judiciary Committee impeachment hearing.

Host Neil Cavuto asked, “I am curious what you make of the fact that the president might want to skip out on this Judiciary Committee opening hearing and maybe others to follow because it is essentially a Kangaroo court or it’s not fair.” Napolitano said, “The rules about which the president are complaining were written by a Republican House of Representatives in 2015. The president would be very unwise not to send lawyers there.”

He continued, “The Democrats are not doing anything that the Democrats did not do to Nixon, or the Republicans didn’t do the Bill Clinton. But I think he makes a mistake when he refuses to participate. It is a valid vote by the House of Representatives that authorized this.”

He added, “He also loses the argument that it’s unfair if he doesn’t take the opportunity to participate himself.” President Donald Trump’s re-election campaign announced Monday that it will no longer provide credentials to Bloomberg News reporters after the corporate news outlet ended investigations into 2020 Democrat candidates in the wake of its billionaire owner, Michael Bloomberg, launching a bid for the presidency.

Late last month, Bloomberg joined the crowded Democrat primary field, prompting Bloomberg News Editor-in-Chief John Micklethwait to announce that the news organization would refrain from investigating the owner and his family, calling the decision a “tradition” of journalism. However, Micklethwait said reporters will continue to investigate President Trump and his administration. “The decision by Bloomberg News to formalize preferential reporting policies is troubling and wrong,” Brad Parscale, President Trump’s 2020 campaign manager, said in a statement Monday.

“Bloomberg News has declared that they won’t investigate their boss or his Democrat competitors, many of whom are current holders of high office, but will continue critical reporting on President Trump,” Parscale continued. “Since they have declared their bias openly, the Trump campaign will no longer credential representatives of Bloomberg News for rallies or other campaign events.”

Parscale concluded by saying that the campaign will decide how it will engage Bloomberg News reporters on a “case-by-case basis.”

“This will remain the policy of the Trump campaign until Bloomberg News publicly rescinds its decision,” he said.

Republican National Committee (RNC) chairwoman Ronna McDaniel expressed support for the Trump campaign’s decision, tweeting: “Media outlets should be independent and fair, and this decision proves that Bloomberg News is neither. The @GOP stands with @TeamTrump and will no longer credential Bloomberg representatives.” The move sparked fury and confusion from reporters, who questioned the feasibility of the decision. Shortly after the decision, Micklethwait issued a statement slamming the ban, arguing that the Trump campaign’s characterization of their editorial policies “couldn’t be further from the truth.”

“We have covered Donald Trump fairly and in an unbiased way since he became a candidate in 2015 and will continue to do so despite the restrictions imposed by the Trump campaign,” said Micklethwait. 